Hi, Mystery Recapped here. Today,
I’m going to explain a science
fiction action film called “Fortress.”
Spoilers ahead! Watch out and take care!
The movie begins in futuristic Canada where
the government has banned the birth of a
second child to control the population. No one
is allowed to give birth to more than a child,
even if the first one dies.
At the heavily guarded Canada–United
States border station, an automated voice requests
everyone to take their personal belongings to the
inspection office. Former army officer John Henry
Brennick and his wife Karen Brennick are in a
car about to be inspected. The couple seems to be
nervous about the check. When Karen moves her arm,
a magnetic vest that she is wearing inside her
overcoat is visible. Turns out that Karen is
pregnant and they are going to Vancouver
to give birth to their second child.
After the first child is born, the government
ties the female’s tube. However, Karen got lucky
and got pregnant again. Hence, the magnetic vest
is to cover her pregnancy. When they are at the
inspection center, the soldiers order them
to get out of the car with their belongings.
While a soldier checks Karen’s bag,
a girl in front of them gets arrested
for being pregnant. But as Karen walks
through the scanning machine, the magnetic
vest stops it from alerting the guards.
The couple is safely outside but one guard
approaches them and notices the magnetic vest on
Karen. An alarm starts to ring and the soldiers
attack them. John manages to fight them and
runs away with Karen to cross the bridge.
As the soldiers pursue them, John asks Karen to
run away without him and she reluctantly agrees.
John is soon arrested, but Karen manages to
flee. In the following scene, we see John
and other prisoners like him in a vehicle,
being taken to a prison called the fortress.
It is a privately-owned maximum security prison
operated by the Men-Tel corporation. The fortress
lies in the middle of a massive desert and
escaping from the prison is impossible. They
get inside the facility and the guards make them
strip naked. A voice in the background welcomes
the prisoners to the fortress and introduces
himself as director Poe. The prisoners are then
brought to a room where everyone is fitted with
a Psychological security intelligence system.
The system is fitted into their intestine and is
triggered when anyone breaks the prison’s rules.
The process is called intestination.
Poe announces that after the implantation
of the technology, the prisoners who cross the
yellow line on the floor will be induced with
extreme pain in their abdomen, and the ones who
cross the red line will die instantly. One of the
inmates gets nervous and crosses the yellow line.
As soon as he does, he falls down in pain. He
accidentally crosses the red line too. The man’s
stomach starts to bloat and eventually bursts.
Others are put into an elevator that goes
underground. It is revealed that the prison
is thirty stories underground. John and a fellow
inmate named Nino Gomez are let off on a floor.
They are greeted by a monitoring device called the
Zed-10 which takes them to a crowded prison cell.
One of the inmates named Stiggs yells at Zed,
claiming that the cell already has too many
people but Zed instead threatens to intestinate
him. The cells have a laser beam that stops
inmates from going out when not needed. John
introduces himself to another inmate named D-day.
As they are about to fall asleep, the third
inmate named Abraham tells John to not dream.
After everyone is asleep, Zed comes
to inspect the prisoners. It scans
John’s face and goes into his dream. John is
dreaming about him making love to Karen.
Somewhere else in the monitoring room, the
prison’s director, Poe watches John’s dream
and grows an infatuation with Karen. He reminds
John, dreaming is an unauthorized thought process
that is not allowed in the facility and wakes him
up. Sharp pain in his abdomen makes him struggle,
suggesting that he has been intestinated.
The following day, the inmates are made
to work in underground construction.
A homosexual inmate named Maddox sexually
assaults Nino. John comes to his rescue and fights
Maddox. Zed stops the commotion by triggering
the device in their abdomen. Later, all three of
them are kept in a tiny laser cell and asked who
started the fight. Nino is too scared of Maddox,
to tell the truth. To save Nino, John lies that
he himslef started the fight. He is then taken to
Poe’s office where Abraham is shaving Poe’s beard.
Poe shows John a live video of Karen showering.
As it turns out, she was arrested after John and
brought to prison as well. Poe intestinates
Karen and John, making them whimper in pain
as his punishment. Later, Abraham tells John
that floors A and B are the women’s quarters,
hence Karen might be there too.
Then, we see Karen in her cell talking
to a fellow pregnant girl. As her
stomach starts to hurt, two guards
take her away. Everyone in the women’s quarter
is pregnant. Karen realizes that the facility
does something with their newborn children.
In the men’s quarter, Maddox picks a fight with
John. The men get into an intense battle
as everyone in the facility watches them,
along with Poe from his cabin. Karen sees her
husband from her floor and is surprised. Both
the parties are bloodied when John pushes Maddox
off the edge but he hangs onto it. Poe orders
John to finish off Maddox but John instead helps
him. Poe takes the matter into his hands and uses
a weapon to kill Maddox that blows up his whole
stomach creating a hole in it. John finds Maddox’s
abdomen device on the floor and secretly hands it
to Nino before being taken away by the guards.
In the following scene, Karen walks into a room
where John is suspended in a massive machine
called the ‘mind wipe chamber’. Poe has sent her
to ask John to cooperate with them. They talk for
a while but the guards drag her out soon. The
machine starts to move along with John making
him hallucinate, this is his punishment for not
obeying director Poe’s order to kill Maddox.
John’s brain slowly starts to break down as he
sees his time at the military, his wedding day,
and so on. After three days, Poe invites Karen
to his chamber. He is surprised that John has
lasted this long as the maximum someone has ever
lasted on the machine is an hour. He offers Karen
to let John free if she stays with him, at his
chamber as his companion. With no choice left,
Karen agrees. When John returns to his cell, he is
completely brain dead. He doesn’t talk to anyone
and has become completely numb to pain.
Karen has started to live with Poe. One night,
she wakes up to see Poe in a chair attached to
several wires. As it turns out he was modified to
be an advanced human. He doesn’t sleep or eat, but
intakes amino acids once a month. The same happens
with all the children born in the prison. They
go through several procedures to be turned into
advanced humans, so that one day, mankind can be
free of overpopulation and starvation. Poe was one
of the first babies to be experimented upon. Karen
is shocked by the information. Four months pass
and John has still not recovered. Abraham tells
him that Karen’s belly is finally showing and his
baby will be born the world soon. John doesn’t
react, but sheds a single tear. That night,
Karen tricks Poe into drinking alcohol which
makes him pass out. She uses the control panel
to control John’s dream, in which she sees the
kid version of John trapped in a pit. She brings
him out of the pit, bringing the real John back
into consciousness. His inmate friends are shocked
and happy to have him back. John asks Abraham to
help him escape the prison with Karen. Abraham is
skeptical but agrees to do it for John anyway.
Abraham tells Karen about John’s recovery. She
is over the moon about her plan working. She
claims that she can help him with the escape
and starts to devise a plan. Later, Nino hands
John the device he had gotten from Maddox’s body.
Their inmate friend D-Day used to be a computer
geek before coming to the prison. He offers to
take the device apart and study it.
Next, we see Karen steal a diamond-like
holographic lense from Poe’s cabin. She almost
gets caught, but manages to hide the device inside
her mouth. She hands the device to Abraham the
following day and asks him to give it to John.
Abraham doesn’t want to get in trouble,
but accepts doing it as a favor.
The guys use the cell’s protective laser beams
to trigger the lens and look at the hologram
of the facility. They find that there is
a way out through the construction site.
The following morning, Abraham puts the lens back
in Poe’s cabin. Poe asks Karen to divorce John and
marry him. He claims he will treat the child
as his own and even promises to let John free.
Karen accepts the offer for her husband and child.
Meanwhile, D-Day figures out how the intestinate
device works. The device is magnetic and can be
used to bring out the devices from other bodies.
They try the procedure and are surprised when it
works. They get all of their intestinate devices
out. The following day, Poe is alerted by Zed
to look through the security camera footage,
where he sees Karen stealing the lens and Abraham
putting it back. He is angered to see he has been
betrayed, but Zed informs him that he has been
dismissed because of his carelessness.
Meanwhile, the boys put their plan into action.
They attach their intestinate devices to a metal
pipe in the construction area and pose as if they
are fighting. As Zed finds out about the fight,
it triggers the intestinates, causing them to
explode. This creates a way for them to escape
through the pipe. But Poe activates the
steam valves and sends hot gas into the pipes
to keep them trapped. He also activates the
strike clones who start firing at the group
from inside the facility. They are stuck
in the pipe now. One of the inmates, Stiggs
panics and tries to go into the facility again,
but the clones shoot him dead. Meanwhile, Abraham
approaches Karen at the facility but before they
can do anything, Poe finds them. He kills Abraham
and makes some soldiers take Karen to turn her
baby into an ‘advanced human’ like him. Meanwhile,
the guys manage to kill one of the clones and
find out that he is an advanced human as well.
John takes his gun and attacks the other clones.
They get inside the facility while battling the
clones. In the end, they manage to get on top
of an elevator-like machine that lifts them up.
Everyone in the prison cheers for
them when they see them escaping.
They finally reach Poe’s chamber and demand to
meet Karen. The screen shows the doctors trying
to extract her baby. John threatens Poe to cease
the delivery but since he has been dismissed,
the system doesn’t take his command. One of the
killing devices recognizes the guys and tries to
shoot them, but they quickly dodge it, making Poe
its victim. After Poe’s death, D-Day gets on the
control panel and tries to stop the doctors from
performing the procedure on Karen. But before he
can complete the process, a clone shoots him. John
manages to kill the clone and an injured D-Day
disables the whole facility’s electrical system
with his final strength. The doctors stop the
procedure for the time being. The security system
fails and every prisoner starts running away.
John and Nino are the only survivors. They go
to look for Karen and take her away from the
doctors. The three get into a vehicle and
finally drive away from the facility.
They only stop when they cross the border and
reach Mexico. Karen is about to give birth in a
shed when the vehicle they drove in, starts
to move on its own. As it turns out it is
still being controlled by the facility. It hits
Nino and kills him. John goes out to fight the
vehicle as Karen is in labor inside the shed.
John attacks the vehicle with the weapon from
earlier and explodes it. But the vehicle
strikes the shed, and Karen is buried in
its remains. A distressed John looks for his wife
and finds her safe nearby. She has a newborn baby
in her hands. The movie ends as the two
look at their kid in fascination.
Subscribe for more videos like
this, turn on notifications,
and leave a like to help the channel out.
Thank you for watching.